# Discussion Forum #7

In F. Scott Fitzgerald's famous short story, "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button" the issue of aging is fundamentally turned on its head. Traditionally, we think of gray hair, whiskers and wrinkles as outwards signs of chronological age. Similarly, we always assume that a baby or a toddler is under two years of age. Neither of these holds true for Mr. Button. The question I am posing here is both philosophical and metaphorical:

What is the point of having a protagonist age in reverse? What does it ask us to consider about our world, our lives, our interactions with others? How can you connect this "science fiction" to the real world? What might it help us understand about our own lives? Be creative in your answer.

# response

When I read the prompt for this forum before reading the novel, I was instantly reminded of a character from The Phantom Tollbooth. While this was a wildly different story, the character in the phantom tollbooth was a short boy who floated wherever he walked. According to him, there was no reason why he couldn't just grow down to touch the ground, instead of growing up to touch the sky. I was wondering if we were going to see something similar in this book. I can't say I was disappointed either. Fitzgerald's writing does not disappoint.

With the premise of aging in reverse, all perceptions, like how people perceive Benjamin and how Benjamin perceives the world are called into question. First of all, it's true that how you look matters, even if it shouldn't. People have to dress up to go into work. If you look old, people treat you as such. I would also say that people treat you better if you smile, stand up straight, and look well kept. The more interesting thing for me was seeing what things made Benjamin happy. In his old age, or young age, I guess, he didn't seem very satisfied but once he was around 18ish, and started looking younger, he was able to participate in more parts of society. It seemed like his enjoyment of life was directly related to how much people were willing to accept him, or what they saw him as. Even as a child, so, an old person in a child's body, his days were enjoyable playing with toys and the like.

This story is vaguely depressing and nearly scary for reasons that I have a difficult time putting into words. Maybe it's the fact that this story feels like it's saying "you'll only be happy if you fit into societal expectations." This books scares me because Ben's old age in number and young age in body, he forgets all of who he is and all of the things he ever did. The same thing will happen to all of us either as we get older or when we die. Yet paradoxically, Ben seemed content as a baby, before he was unborn, I suppose. This book just makes me ask a whole lot of questions that I don't like to think about.
