# freewrite 06

How has aging impacted you? Have you ever felt you were "not your age" or "born in the wrong time?" In what ways does chronological time fail to account for human experience? If you have a hard time thinking about yourself, think of a family member. As you respond to this question, feel free to bring in ideas from the story "Benjamin Button," but you are not required to do so.

## response

I definitely feel like I'm not my age. When I was younger, I used to be all haughty thinking I was "mentally older" or something and I thought it was kinda cool to be older. But now, it's somewhat the reverse. This year, I'll be turning twenty, and that age feels so foreign to me. I think developmentally, I'm at 16 years old max. There are a lot of problem solving skills that I feel like I lack and it just generally takes me longer to learn things than it does other people. Then again, I suppose many people would say that, so perhaps I only feel that way because I don't know what it's like to be anyone else. Could be just that I'm surrounded by smarter people and I feel like I'm just not as wise in comparison. These past few years, I've realized that age is a lot more than just a number. I would say that most of it has to do with your body, and the fact that even if you don't grow any wiser, you can still end up looking like one of those wise old men with a long white beard that would hand someone a scroll of wisdom. Unfortunately, I feel like age is a whole lot more connected to identity than I gave it credit for before. I mean, it just represents the fact that time is passing. For myself, the fact that I'm looking older but don't feel like I've gained any new real skills or experiences is frustrating and somewhat disturbing. It evokes this feeling of cognitive dissonance where my perception of who-I-am does not match my appearance. I suppose that's why my parents always wanted to be younger; they were probably feeling the same irritation at their body, and time, moving on before they were ready. (is that how you use a semicolon?). Personally, I am a large change hater. I don't like things changing if I'm not the one changing them. The fact that time refuses to just stop the aging process of my body reminds me of my mortality, and I really don't like it. As I mentioned in that post on the discussion forum, I found that Benjamin Button story kind of sad really. It feels like it shows that a lot of your life depends on what people think of you. And what people think of you also depends on how you look, which depends on your age. Overall kind of depressing. There is no moral to this freewrite.
