# discussion forum #10

Consider the viewpoints on war in "The Things They Carried."  O'Brien describes a war in which there was little leadership and much aimlessness. His focus is the equipment the men carried, and how that equipment reflected both their experiences at war and their former experiences at home. How does the protagonist change during the story? How does his relationship to his "things" change in the story? Why? What does this story tell us about the Vietnam War from the American perspective? How is your understanding of this story impacted by learning about the war The Gangster We Are All Looking For and Daughter from Danang?

## response

The equipment that the men carry serves to characterize and humanize them. It shows that they are all more than just "grunts" at their core. The physical weight of items like rations and munitions, while showing that each grunt was literally carrying a heavy weight on his back, is less important than the symbolic weight placed upon them as soldiers in a war that they didn’t want to fight. Where the humanization really comes into play is the personal items that each soldier brought with them. Most notably out of all of the items is Cross' letters from Martha.

Seeing one of his subordinates die as a result of his own daydreaming seems to make Cross snap back to reality. By burning the letters, he nearly mourns and accepts the loss of what was never real: Martha's love for him. However, it wasn't the letters that were clouding his judgement. Rather, it was Cross being stuck in the past in order to escape from his present reality of the Vietnam War. Cross doesn't seem ignorant of this fact, though.

> He realized it was only a gesture. Stupid, he thought. Sentimental, too, but mostly just stupid. Lavender was dead. You couldn't burn the blame. Besides, the letters were in his head.

The point being here that it wasn't the letters themselves that were important but what they represented. Cross still managed to move on, by generating a sort of hate for Martha, as it was.

I'm not entirely sure how the Vietnam perspective and the American perspective mix here, to be honest. Maybe the thing is that they don't. The only real thing that both sides shared was the general experience of war, which is that it's unenjoyable for both sides. One thing that is in common is how The Gangster We Are All Looking For also focuses on objects in the earlier parts of the book. I'll be curious to see what other people have to say about the connection between these two. Maybe the scene where the nameless narrator is pulled off of the fishing boat and onto the navy ship?
