# freewrite 09

Tim O'Brien did not need to go to Vietnam to fight the war. He was accepted to graduate school, but chose to enlist instead of staying at home, which many people would have preferred to do. He lent his journalistic and creative eye to his experience when he came home, and processed the experience in his fiction. In this way, he is not unlike Le, who processes her life experience surviving the war (and escaping its aftermath) in her own fiction.

Reflect on O'Brien and Le's masterpieces--in specific, their ability to process real life in fiction. Do you have life experiences you would like to write about? If so, what are they? Would you also want to turn them into fiction? Where might you begin your journey?

## response

O'Brien really did have a good story to tell. Personally, I liked the format of O'Brien's story more than Le's simply because it was easier for me to follow and spelled out the metaphor. It feels like the kind of story that a veteran might tell his grand kids when they asked what the war was like. The entire time while reading it, I pictured this old, but not frail, man by the fire explaining to his kids that not everything that they carried had physical weight but rather mental weight. Weight that could be felt but not quantified. Sometimes, you don't need a complex metaphor to tell a powerful story, and I think O'Brien's writing proves this.

Le's writing was quite complex, and in doing so, she somewhat limits her audience, I think. I am aware of my lackluster analysis skills on literary things and so I'm aware that I'm part of an audience that this book was probably not meant for. I can certainly see how other people with stronger English backgrounds than I would find the symbolism pleasant.

Sometimes, turning real life events into fiction can make it easier for you to tell a more convincing or impactful story. Oftentimes, real events lie in a much more grey area than such events created within fictional writing. I think that by telling a more black or white story, readers can more easily empathize with the events that happened.

Personally, I'm not a fan of processing real life, not that I mind anyone else doing it. During English at my highschool, I did somewhat indirectly do this. We were assigned to write a script about anything with any story. And well, I ended up writing a story where the main character, an aging salary man suffers from numerous daily events. The entire script makes you just feel really bad after reading it. I was quite proud of myself. This was less to "process" my life but more to expel it in a somewhat cathartic edginess in writing. Honestly, I wouldn't be great at turning my real life into fiction. The characters in there would basically reflect me and the people around me. At that point, is there any point to not simply writing an autobiography?

You know, I wonder what the whole point of their writing was. Was it to process traumatic events? I feel like O'Brien's story was a much more "and this was how it was" kind of a moral. As I mentioned, it felt like the answer to "granddad, what was the war like in Vietnam?"
