# Discussion Forum #1

## All About Me:

Write a 300 word minimum introduction to yourself. You will be introducing yourself to both the entire class, as well as to your instructor. Things to consider:

1. Your experience with writing in your life
2. Things that make you uniquely "you"
3. Your concerns about this class
4. Your goals for this class
5. Your learning style
6. Your hobbies and interests and what they say about you

## response

Greetings, all.

My name is Cole "Cole Gannon" Gannon but I go by Cole. Writing and I have a rocky history together. In my last year and a half of high school, I had difficulty completing assignments because of in school and out of school pressures. I don't think that I'm horrible at writing but what stands in my way is typically mental roadblocks. When trying to do any writing, be it large or small, I tend to just stare at my screen and delete any sentence I type because it might not be perfect. Even writing this feels like a monumental task and has left me with a real anxious knot in my gut. According to other people, I'm not awful at conveying ideas out loud but sometimes my writing is a bit lacking. A common piece of feedback that my teachers have given me is that I tend to not provide effective analysis and that I end up restating the facts. I have nothing to say about this. I have the tendency to write long run-on sentences that don't scan very well because I write very informally and basically end up writing things how I would say them in my head and I don't really think that some things justify a period maybe they justify a comma, though. Apparently, my transitions to different topics are also too abrupt.

Lemon San Pellegrino is one of the best drinks that can ever be consumed. I base my life values around Lemon San Pellegrino. In 1996, Sergeant Torvalds who was injured during the battle of Lemon San Pellegrino at The Scheldt river in Belgium proudly stated six vows to Lemon San Pellegrino that I hold dear to me. Currently, I major in Computer Science since it's high paying. The more money I make, the more Lemon San Pellegrino I can consume. This class will aid me on my quest to obtain more Lemon San Pellegrino by perhaps helping me write more freely and be less afraid of "imperfect writing".

I have absolutely no idea what type of learning style works the best for me. Ever since third grade, I've been in schools that were entirely "project based". I'm no stranger to group work since that's basically what 95% of my work has been during my entire education this far.

In my free time, I program and play games to escape from the fact that I have no idea what I'm doing with my life.
I'm a fairly serious person so I hate anything that makes me laugh or smile.
