# Discussion Forum #2

For our first discussion topic of the quarter, please respond to the following question in a minimum of 200 words. You should quote the text at least once to support your answer. Then, you should respond to 3 of your peers by Sunday.

Question 1: What are the signs that the narrator of _The Gangster We Are All Looking For_ underwent trauma in her childhood, and if so, how does she process that trauma in literary form? For example, what kind of events does she experience that are traumatic? What kind of language (metaphor, simile, dreamscapes) does she use to portray her childhood manner of processing that trauma? Remember, aside from the core trauma of leaving her war-torn homeland, there are traumas associated with immigration and assimilation.

## response

The narrator experienced trauma in the form of feeling out of control, small, and trapped. Probably the most identifiable form of this is how the glass butterfly seemed to be a projection of how the narrator felt when she was a child. When the narrator asked her "uncles" to help her free the butterfly from the disk, their response was that even if the butterfly could cry for help, it has as much value as "water for Mel's lawn". Imagining that the butterfly was her, in some sort of way, she felt like she wasn't being heard or listened to. That even if she did cry for help to try to escape the metaphorical or literal ocean, nobody would listen to her. The daydream that the narrator has of trying to find the place in the sky that could be ripped open to see her mother and brother is quite representative of her being trapped in "an ocean". At first, I thought it was an odd detail to include the teacher's "fish lips" but my interpretation of that is not that the teacher literally has fish lips but rather that the lips were those of the fish in the ocean. The ocean of which she cannot escape. In this entire section, there is a lot of "floating" and "flying" but these two are not even close to the same thing. "Floating" is not the type of weightless happiness it might sound like. It probably actually refers to her feeling of floating out of control in whatever "ocean" it may be, such as the literal ocean, a refugee camp where she has to wait, or a society that she isn't familiar with. Flying, rather, seems to be a purposeful movement in a direction. When she came to America, the narrator, her Ba, and her uncles walked the uncertain rainy path "as people often do when they have no idea what they are walking towards". Their entire trip was laced with uncertainty and, well, floating.
