# freewrite 01

What memories do you have from your childhood? The narrator of Gangster shares her childhood memories in great detail. For example, she can recall the way it felt to wear the scratchy American dresses that Mrs. Russell gave her. Do you have detailed memories of childhood? If so, what are some of them? If not, why not?

## response

My memories of things tend not to come to me on demand. It is unfortunate, but I'm unable to just "remember" memories of when I was five or six, for instance. However, if there's something to link me back to there, typically I can recall vivid details. For older memories, places and scents seem to work the best, like the smell of the ocean or certain types of grasses that grow on the shore. The memories that I can recall tend to revolve around a certain object that was in the memory such as an intricate pastry or a stuffed animal. For whatever reason, most of my memories, including the ones that I have from an early age, seem to be remembered in third person. I think the oldest memory that I have is waking up grumpy from a nap or sleep of some sort. I was in these somewhat lightweight pijamas that were white and had faded blue and green dinosaurs on them. I walked down the stairs ready to declare that I was unhappy about being awake but instead I was captivated by this cake that my dad was making for our guests. This cake had an orange glazed top and a black decoration on top that terminated in three points. I'm pretty sure that cake is what made me remember the entire event. I believe I was about four or five when that happened. Another shorter memory that I have was when my dad gave me a quarter and he told me to keep it safe. Naturally, I thought to put it in the piggy bank but we were in the car outside my grandparent's house. Well, the vents for the AC looked a lot like the slot for coins and so I proudly announced "piggy bank!" and put it in.
