# Discussion Forum #3

You need to create an initial response to the question, of a minimum of 250 words, and then respond to three of your peers' in a minimum of 50 words per response.

Discussion Question: (respond to one or all of these questions in your response)

The United States has always been a nation of immigrants. What do you believe is the inherent value in sharing immigration narratives? How do immigration narratives help Americans understand their sense of nation? What about the current political climate in the United States makes this even more important than ever? How often do Americans really discuss their immigration histories with each other? In what ways do you connect with the story related in Gangster?

## Response

Sharing immigration narratives helps us to remember that we all came from somewhere else and that there's no sense in gatekeeping anyone from entering the country. A nation is a collection of people, culture(s), and values. Understanding the process and struggles that different people took to integrate into America helps us see our differences and similarities in these things. Things are quite divisive in this current political landscape so maybe finding some common ground and amity between races wouldn't hurt. Personally, I haven't seen anyone talk about their immigration experience unless prompted beforehand. Perhaps people just like to keep it tucked away as a reminder of their past, or something. I can't really connect on a personal level to the narrator at all, to be honest. Maybe it's the way the book is written or the metaphors are too complex but I just don't register much of an emotional response at all when reading this book.
