# freewrite 02

TODO

## response

I don't think I've ever been involved in a cultural misunderstanding. At least, not off the top of my head. What would a cultural misunderstanding be, anyways? Maybe something like calling a food a different name or having different words for things. Even though most of the family that I interact with is Asian, we've all spoken English and it's never really been an issue for me to understand them. There's never been any real "conflict" that's come out of it but perhaps a... misunderstanding... I see, literally any misunderstanding, not just conflict. Um, well, around my friends, I may have used several phrases that I've gotten from who knows where. "Au pau", even though I don't really know what it means directly or if that's the correct spelling, is something that my mother has used when she asks us if we've finished dinner. I think it translates to "all done" from Hawaiian. I accidentally used the phrase around my friends and it seemed like I had them stumped for a bit back in grade school. When I speak the letter "h" out loud, I say "haych" instead of "aych", like everyone else seems to say. It's completely normal for me, since my father is Irish and that's how I was taught the alphabet but every time I say it around people who haven't met me, it seems to catch them off guard. "Please send me the haych tee em ell file" and they'll ask me what I just said. When I was younger, I used to pronounce the letter "R" like "ore", instead of "our". As far as cultural misunderstandings go, that's probably the best I can provide but there's no real moral or change. Some of my friends enjoy saying "haych" to poke fun at me, however. I've been born and raised around here in a bubble and most of the people I interact with are part of this bubble so I would suppose there's not much room for larger misunderstandings. Either that or they're just misunderstandings that are so insignificant that I can't seem to remember them right now. I don't really think my friends could handle it differently than they did. I think it's fine to have cultural differences.
