# discussion forum 09

For this discussion post, choose a passage from "Where Are You Going, Where Have You Been?" and analyze it closely. The passage you choose does not count toward the word count, which is 250 words of your own analysis.

## response

To preface, there are lots of good things to analyze in this short story and I kinda got paralysed trying to choose between them. Instead, I think I would like to provide several shorter pieces of analysis on multiple pieces of the text.

> "My sign." And he drew an X in the air, leaning out toward her. They were maybe ten feet apart. After his hand fell back to his side the X was still in the air, almost visible.

This scene always struck me as odd. Why would Arnold have a sign and what does it mean? Well, this combined with all the rest of the religious satanic imagery such as flies, leads me to believe that Arnold was marking the area of the crime, similar to how conmen choose their marks. The X standing in the air just represents that Arnold was casting a spell, perhaps an evil one, on the house and Connie. Going a little deeper, this is similar to how dogs mark their territory or wild animals defend their kill.

> He grinned to reassure her and lines appeared at the corners of his mouth. His teeth were big and white.

This description has an eery similarity to a certain story that many of us were told as children:

> "But Grandmother! What big teeth you have," said Little Red Riding Hood her voice quivering slightly.

The similarities of this scene don't stop there. The Big Bad Wolf, just like Arnold Friend, tries to coax the Little Red Riding Hood into a sense of security. Could it not be said that The Big Bad Wolf is nearly the same vilian as Arnold Friend?

> "The better to eat you with, my dear," roared the wolf and he leapt out of the bed and began to chase the little girl.

There should be no question of exactly what Arnold planned to with Connie or what The Big Bad Wolf planned to do with the Little Red Riding Hood. Perrault, the author of The Little Red Riding Hood explained his moral clearly:

> ...young lasses, pretty, courteous and well-bred, do very wrong to listen to strangers, And it is not an unheard thing if the Wolf is thereby provided with his dinner. I say Wolf, for all wolves are not of the same sort; there is one kind with an amenable disposition – neither noisy, nor hateful, nor angry, but tame, obliging and gentle, following the young maids in the streets, even into their homes. Alas! Who does not know that these gentle wolves are of all such creatures the most dangerous!

And I mean, this could not be more clearly related to Where Are You Going, Where Have You Been. Just the description of Arnold's teeth is enough to characterize him as The Big Bad Wolf. It's quite nuanced, if you think about it.

>>> He grinned so broadly his eyes became slits and she saw how thick the lashes were, thick and black as if painted with a black tarlike material.

Arnold is described in a rather inhuman-like way here. In Connie's Tambourine Man, Arnold was portrayed as a representation of Satan which I find fairly accurate. The serpentine description of Arnold's eyes are yet another religious reference, this time to the serpent in the garden of eden.

So then! What is the moral of all of this? Well, that's up for interpretation, isn't it? It could be just to raise awareness for this kind of thing happening but that's a rather surface level view of it. Personally, I think Oates wanted to show that evil can be hiding in plain sight and wanted to really get under our skin with the utter contrast of Friend's smoothtalk and actions. But who knows? Unlike Perrault, she doesn't spell out the story.
