# Discussion Forum #4

For this discussion post, write a 250 word entry on one of the following two questions, and then go back to respond to three of your peers' postings in a minimum of 50 words each.

1. What is Ma's character? How does her arrival change the family dynamic? What do you think of her choices and decisions? Give at least two references to the text, and make sure to use at least one quote.

2. How do you learn that the narrator is growing up? How is maturation handled in the text? What are the clues that our narrator has new perspectives on life as she ages? Make sure to quote the text at least once.

## Response

Ma's character just generally strikes me as odd. The chapter opens up with a general description of the setting and only three pages in do we get a mention of the mother. "One of the gates hung lower than the other after my mother backed into it that summer, trying to park our family's new used Cadillac" (pg. 38). Without taking into account what that sentences even means, "Ma" isn't even the subject of the sentence. She's just noted nearly as an afterthought.

Ma's nighttime adventure in the car with the narrator just was very irresponsible and juvenile. She clearly didn't take responsibility for her actions, going as far as to argue that it wasn't her fault because the car was "as big as a boat" (pg. 39). That event coupled with the narrator's description of Ma's pocketbook paints her as a somewhat impulsive and insecure person.

Ma and Ba do seem to have their arguments which means that home for the narrator isn't always a friendly place to be. Their fights about trivial things meant that the narrator felt like she had only the water in the bathtub to escape to. As a side note, (this is not really related to the prompt) The mention of the man at the movie theater and the way that Ma acted towards him makes me wonder if that's going to be some kind of crucial plot point.
