# freewrite 03

How is this essay going for you? What are your pressing issues? How is the process going? Do you have writer's block? What is going well? What are you learning about your writing style?

## response

The essay is going so-so, for me, I think. At the beginning, I really had difficulty trying to figure out what to write about. It felt like I couldn't pick any particular event that shaped me as a person. Not that there weren't any but perhaps that there were too many to choose from. On the surface, it seemed like none of them fit the prompt exactly. And I guess that's the thing, right? I could go for hours examining each experience to see if it fits exactly within the prompt but that's not really the point. If an event doesn't *exactly* fit the prompt, well, that's okay, I think. As long as you're going along with the spirit of the assignment and telling a story. Once I started doing that, I realized that the event(s) that I chose to write about actually really did fit the prompt, I just had to start writing a little bit and figure out how to explain it in the right context, I guess. Honestly, I really really really dislike essays and for most of yesterday, I just really wanted to do anything but think about writing it. I managed to write a bit but it looks like I'm probably gonna be stuck at the computer for a while longer. Knowing that it is a draft makes the writing a lot easier since I don't feel like it has to be perfect. That being said, I would still feel somewhat self conscious if the writing wasn't at least polished a little bit since I'm going to have my classmates look over my work in peer editing. I have enlisted one of my friends for moral support and so far it is going a lot better than if I was to just straight "willpower" it out. Naturally, the writing is mine. I think the esoteric phrasing and misuse of commas should make that clear enough. My main issue right now is trying to figure out how to tie it all together. I agree that the introduction is important but I also think you can really screw up an essay with a weak conclusion. Kinda like when you eat some food and then it leaves a bitter taste in your mouth sorta thing. I'm quite proud of my introduction as it is. Frankly, it might be pushing the boundaries of what might be considered acceptable or "normal" for an essay but given that the entire essay is about how I chose to be different, I find it quite suiting. I'm not learning a whole lot about my writing style, I don't think. I write how I think usually, and that's quite informal. I do know it's much easier to write when you're enjoying it though. Maybe there's hope for me after all?
