# discussion forum 05

After viewing the film, consider the following, and respond in a minimum 200 word posting. You do not need to answer all of these questions, but you could if you wanted to. In your three responses to others' postings, make sure you really engage your thoughts and opinions.

- What are some of the thoughts that are aroused in your mind when you watch the documentary film? Be honest; there are no wrong answers.
- Explain Heidi’s mother’s perspective on her daughter, and her adoption.
- Explore a few cultural differences between Vietnam and the U.S.A.
- Do you believe the crisis that happens at the end of this film could have been avoided? How?

## response

This documentary really hit me in the feels, if I'm being quite honest. The beginning of the scenes of children being separated from their parents was the worst thing to watch. I actually had to take a five minute break from it to just suffer for a little bit before resuming. In general, I think the entire situation is just unbelievably screwed up. The Vietnam War was itself horrible but then trying to justify the war by what appears to me as basically stealing children is just criminal.

Heidi's mother has a style of parenting that should probably be considered universally bad. It is unfortunate that we never got to have her mother interviewed to see what the reason she had for adopting Heidi. The documentary tried to give us an idea of who Heidi's mother was. Did they ever name her? Either way, the outstanding points about Heidi's mother seemed to be that she was really strict and controlling of Heidi.

As for her other mother, her birth mother, that is, well, she seemed overjoyed to have Heidi back. It seemed like she had high expectations of what Heidi could do. Perhaps the Mother -- Child bond is stronger than a child that hasn't seen their parents in twenty years. Not really sure what the reasoning is behind that.

The "upfrontness" of the Vietnamese people was a shocker to her, and honestly, if I was in that position, I would've been shocked too. They were much more family oriented than the United States which was good and bad. Heidi never had much of a sense of family growing up, it seemed, and so being around them and being told that she was loved seemed to make her at least a little bit happy. That being said, there was a real expectation and weight placed upon her shoulders at the end there.

I don't really think that this could've been avoided. It was eventually going to come down to them asking for help and money. Perhaps the blow could've been softened if both parties spoke one language fluently. I think if Heidi spoke good Vietnamese or her birth family spoke good English. Perhaps the emotions could've been conveyed more effectively. Perhaps she needed to make the boundaries more clear upfront? I have no real good solutions to this problem.
