# freewrite 04

What is your critical stance on the film Daughter from Danang? For example, if you were to critique the filmmaker for any technical issues, what would you say? What could be done better to make the film more effective? Did you feel the documentary manipulated you at all?

## response

Hm, critical stance like a movie critic, huh? Well, in the comments of the youtube video, it seemed that the translation wasn't very well done. I don't know if that means the translation between what was being said and us, the viewers, was poor or if the actual translation in the events that happened on screen was poor. I don't really know what I was expecting really out of this documentary. I think the entire thing was just overall sad and didn't really have a good conclusion. I guess that's just reality for you. I think the film was already very effective in explaining the dual lives of Heidi and her mother. I liked how it jumped back and forth between the two of them to show that they were both leading wildly different lives. As far as technical issues go, I didn't really see an issue other than the low resolution. I wish that they went more in depth into Heidi's relationship with her adoptive mother. I think what little touching they did on the subject was very tastefully done but it could've had more. Overall, I think the entire thing was well paced and well organized. I just wonder if having the cameras on all the time may have caused some events to play out in ways that they wouldn't've. Was that last event just drama caused by the production team? It looked real but did the team prompt Heidi's brother to ask for a monthly stipend? I wonder how much guilt rests on either party for that last incident. I wonder if Heidi has to suppress the thoughts of her birth family suffering in a poor country without the luxuries that she has. I wonder if Heidi's birth family feels guilty after asking for money or for not understanding the cultural differences? Should Heidi feel guilty? Even I don't really know here. Maybe as guilty as we should all feel for living in this country that is wealthy enough to help out other countries but chooses war instead. I wonder if there will be any real conclusion to this thing. I suspect not.
