# discussion forum 06

Write a minimum 200 word statement that indicates your evaluation of book, _The Gangster We Are All Looking For_. This could be the first start of Essay #2, or it could be a portion of one of your body paragraphs, part of your brainstorming, or a new idea you are exploring. To clarify: an evaluation is a reasonable opinion, similar in tone to a movie or book review.

In your three 50 word responses, try to anticipate a counterargument for whatever your peer has said. Try to think about another perspective and give them your insights.

## response

I have very mixed feelings about this book. I think where it hits hard is in it's descriptions of places and settings. The metaphors, while convoluted and increasingly hard to follow, would probably be considered well done by better readers than myself. I, for one, think they get in the way of an intrinsically interesting story. I'm aware that I missed out on a large facet of the book simply due to the fact that I'm not an immigrant but the plot and development of the narrator's character was interesting enough to keep me hooked.

Part of what made the book so challenging for me to follow was the constant "show not tell" attitude that the author seemed to abide by. Sure, it's good storytelling but when you're not good at analysis like me, it just feels like the author was lazy and left all of the work for me to do. Maybe it was obvious to some people but the metaphor at the beginning with the glass butterfly took me hours of re-reading and discussion with my friends for me to even figure out that it was significant. The metaphors and imagery feel forced on me in a way that I don't like. I think a large part of this is just differences between how the author and I see the world and think of past events.

I wish the author focused more on what the child felt but in more explicit ways rather than the dream states and other literary things she used. I had difficulty putting myself in her shoes and really understanding what it was like to be in her scenario.

As for what I'm writing or what my evaluation of the book is going to be. I have no idea! Overall, I can't say I would recommend the book to any of my friends simply due to it's annoying complexity. Perhaps the thesis of my essay would be something along the lines of "This book uses too many different types of imagery and jumps back and forth in time. The complex metaphors and all the rest of these kinds make the story and plot difficult to follow. Which means it's bad?" As you can see, I'm not solid on what my criticism against the book is going to be so any suggestions would be helpful.
