# freewrite 05

What is your favorite part of the novel The Gangster We Are All Looking For? What stood out to you? If a "favorite" part does not ring true, then what are some parts you struggled with? Feel free to probe any aspect of the novel that stands out to you.

## response

I don't have the page numbers in my head but all of the description and setting was just really really good. I actually ended up learning a bit about how to describe a good setting from reading this book. I thought the beginning section was full of good metaphors and imagery. I guess that would've been the first section we were asked to read. Then also that description of the apartment of where the pool was filled in because of the landlord not wanting to be liable. Maybe it wasn't accurate to what she described but I had pretty clear images in my mind of what those places looked like. I imagined that the first house they moved into was like this sort of open and breezy place surrounded by grass. For whatever reason, it looked kind of like maybe old Japanese houses might? I can't give a good explanation of why. The scene where the uncles are going around and fixing things and painting, I imagined this nearly orange area of houses. The farther the book went on, the more I struggled understanding what was going on. It could be that I wasn't reading as well or that I missed words or something but I feel like that shouldn't of been the case since I was still invested in the story. The constant jumping back and forth in time messed with me. I felt like it wasn't always clear if we were in the present or the past. I'm okay with jumping from perspective to perspective. In fact, some of my favorite books have multiple protagonists but the time jumping back and forth was a bit much for me. I think what really put the nail in the coffin is that I couldn't always tell what was imagery/dreamlike and what was real. As I've mentioned before, I tend to take things quite literally, basically to a fault. Come to think of it, I probably could've looked up a timeline for when things happened in that book online but I never did. If there was a timeline of "this happened, then this happened and now we're in a new location", this would be really helpful for me. I already have enough trouble getting my own past events in order. Slightly veering off topic, this evaluation essay might be a bit challenging for me since I'm going to have to re-read a whole lot of the book since my comprehension isn't great. I guess I'll list which things I struggled with in that essay or why the book could've been more clear.
