# Final Discussion Forum--Essay Progress Discussion Board

Please write a 250 word description of your topic for Essay #3, including your progress with the final draft. Indicate some of the things you have learned along the way, what you would do differently if you had to do it over, what you are proudest of. Respond to three peers in 50 word responses.

## response

I struggled to choose a topic early on because I felt like the "Opposing Viewpoints in Context" had lower quality sources and data than I was expecting. Since we were required to use at least two sources from there, I felt like I had to base the topic I chose around quality of source rather than interest. My brainstorming was somewhat limitied; I felt like there were so many good topics to write a good argumentative essay about. Gun control, Capitalism vs Socialism, The War Against Drugs, all of these were interesting things and I felt paralyzed by choice. It only occurred to me later in the brainstorming process that I wasn't constrained to just the De Anza sources and I could pull in studies and statistics from elsewhere if required.

With that dim realization, I decided that the legalization of marijuana was of interest and relevant to me and everyone else in the United States. I'm also stupidly long on cannabis so I wanted to educate myself on the benefits and trade offs that such legislation might cause.

Honestly, I think I was a bit slow on making my choice of topic and I struggled to find sufficiently solid data within the OVIC database. However, once I looked outside of the database, I managed to collect several high quality primary sources. After reading through some of the OVIC arguments, not studies, I was able to decide on three talking points which could be substantiated by solid data. Right now, I'm mostly drowning in too many sources. I should probably get some sort of organization together.
