# freewrite 10

Which of the short stories we read interests you the most? Explain not only why it interests you the most, but what stands out when you reflect back on it. If you want to explore more than one of the short stories in the freewrite, you may do so.

Choose from:

- "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button"
- "The Things They Carried"
- "Where Are You Going, Where Have You Been"
- "Lust"

## response

Oh this is a tough question. I really liked every one of them except Lust because I was uncomfortable with the topic presented. Here is how I would rank them:

- "Where Are You Going, Where Have You Been"
- "The Things They Carried"
- "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button"
- "Lust"

Originally, I really really didn't like WAYGWHYB since it got under my skin. But once I started analysing it and reading in between the lines, so to speak, my lord, the writing was just so good. I don't think I've encountered another book or short story that's *ever* done this to me. The vivid interaction between Connie and Arnold actually gave me a visceral reaction. I suppose other people felt this way too because in one of the analysis that we were assigned to read, they described Friend as an embodiment of Satan. As I said in my response, I don't think it's entirely wrong. Perhaps the most terrifying part of that story was the dissonance between how "normal" everything seemed in the interaction and how sinister the implications were.

"The Things They Carried", on the other hand was nice and easy to understand the meaning of on the surface. Since O'Brien clearly stated the symbolism, the book opened up with something nice and easy to think about: the meaning behind the physical and non-physical weights placed upon these young men in Vietnam. The writing lent you a hand with picking apart the meaning, which I liked personally, since my analysis is a little lacking. Now where this short story gets good is with the whole "reality" aspect and how it feels like each soldier is caught in a dream or nightmare from some, too afraid to wake up. I like it's clear message.

That being said, it's unable to take rank number one because the writing in WAYGWHYB was just too good! I can't say I liked the story. In fact, I didn't like that encounter with Friend at all. But am I glad I read it? Absolutely. There's such attention to detail within it. I didn't get to include this in my analysis because it was getting too long but Oates mentioned "Flies" four times and that's certainly not a coincidence. Beelzebub, lord of the flies, is another name for Satan.

> They went up through the maze of parked and cruising cars to the bright-lit, fly-infested restaurant...

> She pretended to fidget, chasing flies away from the door.

This provides even more depth to the story. Maybe it wasn't Arnold that was Satan but perhaps society as a whole. Perhaps society was already infected by Satan and Arnold was just a byproduct of it. Connie meets Arnold while out where she shouldn't've been and I am out of time to write more about this...
